hadoop jar target/bigdata2016w-0.1.0-SNAPSHOT.jar    ca.uwaterloo.cs.bigdata2016w.qaovxtazypdl.assignment1.StripesPMI    -input data/Shakespeare.txt -output cs489-2016w-lintool-a1-shakespeare-stripes -reducers 5
hadoop jar target/bigdata2016w-0.1.0-SNAPSHOT.jar    ca.uwaterloo.cs.bigdata2016w.qaovxtazypdl.assignment1.PairsPMI    -input data/Shakespeare.txt -output cs489-2016w-lintool-a1-shakespeare-pairs -reducers 5

hadoop jar target/bigdata2016w-0.1.0-SNAPSHOT.jar    ca.uwaterloo.cs.bigdata2016w.qaovxtazypdl.assignment1.PairsPMI    -input /shared/cs489/data/enwiki-20151201-pages-articles-0.1sample.txt -output cs489-2016w-lintool-a1-wiki-pairs -reducers 5
hadoop jar target/bigdata2016w-0.1.0-SNAPSHOT.jar    ca.uwaterloo.cs.bigdata2016w.qaovxtazypdl.assignment1.StripesPMI    -input /shared/cs489/data/enwiki-20151201-pages-articles-0.1sample.txt -output cs489-2016w-lintool-a1-wiki-stripes -reducers 5


Noahidism Noahidism or Noachidism is a monotheistic ideology based on the Seven Laws of Noah, and on their traditional interpretations within Rabbinic Judaism. According to Jewish law, non-Jews are not obligated to convert to Judaism, but they are required to observe the Seven Laws of Noah. If they accept and fulfill these commandments with the conviction that YHVH commanded them in the Torah as transmitted by Moses, and are careful to observe them in accordance with the relevant details within the Torah law, they are assured of a place in the World to Come (Olam Haba), the final reward of the righteous. The Divinely ordained penalty for violating any of these Noahide Laws is discussed in the Talmud, but in practical terms that is subject to the working legal system that is established by the society at large. Those who subscribe to the observance of these commandments are referred to as Bene Noach (B'nei Noah) (), Children of Noah, Noahides, or Noahites. Supporting organizations have been established around the world over the past decades, by either Noahides or observant Jews. Historically, the Hebrew term Bene Noach has applied to all non-Jews as descendants of Noah. However, nowadays it is also used to refer specifically to those non-Jews who observe the Noahide Laws. Noahic covenant According to the Book of Genesis, Noah and his three sons Shem, Ham, and Japheth survived the Flood aboard the Ark, along with their wives. When Noah's family left the Ark, God made a covenant with them () and all the animals they had aboard the Ark that He would never again destroy the Earth with a flood, and He set the rainbow in the sky as a symbol of the covenant. The account in Genesis 9 had earlier referred only to a requirement for the eating of meat () (that the animal must be dead before the meat is removed) and the prohibition and punishment of murder (), but according to the Talmud this covenant included all of the Seven Laws of Noah. Therefore the B'nei Noah – all humans, as descendants of Noah – are subject to the Noahide laws. (Later, God established a separate and more detailed covenant with the Israelite people at Mount Sinai.) Maimonides Maimonides collected all of the Talmudic and halakhic decisions in his time (c 1135 AD) and laid them out in his work the Mishneh Torah; in addition to Jewish laws and their explanations, the Noahide laws were also collected with their explanation in Maimonides' Sefer Shoftim (Book of Judges) in the last section Hilchot Melachim U’Milchamot ("The Laws of Kings and Wars") 8:9–10:12. Some details of these laws are also found in the Midrashic literature. The Seven Laws of Noah The seven laws listed by the Mishnah in Sanhedrin 56a are: to have laws and courts for the society, and to refrain from blasphemy, idolatry, a set of six forbidden sexual relationships, murder, theft, and eating flesh that was removed from a living animal. Historical movements The Sebomenoi or God-fearers are an early example of gentiles being included within the Jewish community. Some perceive the Apostolic Decree originating from the Council of Jerusalem as endorsing something similar to the laws of Noah. Modern Noahidism Some Jewish religious groups have been particularly active in promoting the Seven Laws, notably the Chabad-Lubavitch movement (whose late leader, Rabbi Menachem Mendel Schneerson, launched the global Noahide Campaign), groups affiliated with Dor Daim.   Small groups calling themselves the B'nei Noah (children of Noah) have recently organised themselves to form communities to abide by these laws. High Council of B’nei Noah A High Council of B’nei Noah, set up to represent B'nei Noah communities around the world, was endorsed by a group that claimed to be the new Sanhedrin. Acknowledgment The Chabad-Lubavitch movement has been the most active in Noahide outreach, believing that there is spiritual and societal value for non-Jews in at least simply acknowledging the seven laws, and even more so if they accept or observe them. In 1991, they had a reference to these laws enshrined in a Congressional proclamation: Presidential Proclamation 5956, signed by then-President George H. W. Bush. Recalling Joint House Resolution 173, and recalling that the ethical and moral principles of all civilizations come in part from the Seven Noahide Laws, it proclaimed March 26, 1991 as "Education Day, U.S.A."  Subsequently, Public Law 102-14 formally designated the Lubavitcher Rebbe's 90th birthday as "Education Day, U.S.A.," with Congress recalling that "without these ethical values and principles, the edifice of civilization stands in serious peril of returning to chaos," and that "society is profoundly concerned with the recent weakening of these principles, that has resulted in crises that beleaguer and threaten the fabric of civilized society." In April, 2006, the spiritual leader of the Druze community in Israel, Sheikh Mowafak Tarif, met with a representative of Chabad-Lubavitch to sign a declaration calling on all non-Jews in Israel to observe the Noahide Laws as laid down in the Bible and expounded upon in Jewish tradition.  The mayor of the Galilean city of Shefa-'Amr (Shfaram) — where Muslim, Christian and Druze communities live side-by-side — also signed the document. In March, 2007, Chabad-Lubavitch gathered ambassadors from six different countries to take part in a gathering to declare, in the name of the states they represent, their support of the universal teachings of Noahide Laws. They represented Poland, Latvia, Mexico, Panama, Ghana, and Japan. They were part of a special program organized by Harav Boaz Kali.  In April, the Abu Gosh mayor Salim Jaber accepted the seven Noahide laws as part of a mass rally by Chabad at the Bloomfield Stadium in Tel Aviv. In May, the newly elected president of France, Nicolas Sarkozy, met with a Chabad-Lubavitch rabbi, Dovid Zaoui, who presented him with literature on the universal teachings of the Noahide Laws. Ten Commandments Judaism does not require gentiles to keep all of the Ten Commandments. Some within Orthodox Judaism view the keeping of certain of the Ten Commandments as being forbidden to gentiles. The Ten Commandments are actually only 10 from among the total number of 613 Jewish commandments in the Torah. Some of this disagreement arises from the English translation of the Hebrew term for the Ten Commandments. In Biblical Hebrew, the ten commandments that were inscribed by God on the tablets at Mount Sinai are called עשרת הדברות, meaning "the ten sayings," because of the 613 Jewish commandments ("Mitzvot"), those 10 are the only ones that were spoken openly by Yahweh to the entire Jewish nation when they were assembled at Mount Sinai. The rest of the 613 Mitzvot were taught to Moses by God, and Moses taught them to the rest of the Jewish people. Mitzvot is the Hebrew term for commandment.
Messianic Jewish theology Messianic Jewish theology is the study of God and Scripture from the perspective of Messianic Judaism, a disputed movement that claims to be a legitimate form of Judaism, but is considered by most Christians and Jews to be a form of Christianity. Core doctrines  * Creation: Messianic Jews accept old earth creationism. * God: Messianics believe in the God of the Bible, and that he is all-powerful, omni-present, eternal, exists outside of creation, and infinitely significant and benevolent. The vast majority of Messianics adhere to trinitarian views of God, while others insist upon strict, unitarian monotheism.  * The Messiah: Yeshua (Jesus) is believed to be the promised Jewish messiah. The mainstream movement accepts Yeshua as God in the flesh, and as the Torah made flesh.  * Written Torah: Messianics, with a few exceptions, consider the written Torah (Pentateuch), the five books of Moses, to remain fully in force and a continuing covenant, to be observed both morally and ritually, by those who profess faith in God. They believe that Yeshua taught and re-affirmed the Torah, rather than doing away with it.  This means that most Messianic Jews do not eat non-Kosher foods such as: shellfish or pork.  They also will not work on Friday nights or Saturday days (the traditional Jewish Sabbath).  This adherence to the biblical Law is where Messianic Judaism differs from most Christian denominations. * Israel: It is believed that the Children of Israel were, remain, and will continue to be the chosen people of the God of Jacob and are central to his plans. Virtually all Messianics (whether Jewish nor non-Jewish) oppose Replacement theology. * The Bible: The Tanakh and New Testament (sometimes called the B’rit Chadasha) are  considered the established inerrant, and divinely inspired Biblical scripture by Messianic Judaism.  * Eschatology:  Messianics hold all of the following eschatological beliefs: the End of Days, the Second Coming of Jesus as the conquering Messiah, the re-gathering of Israel, a rebuilt Third Temple, a Resurrection of the Dead (and that Jesus was resurrected after his death). In addition most believe in the millennial sabbath,although some are Amillinialist. * Oral Torah: Messianic Jewish opinions concerning the "Oral Torah" (the Talmud) are varied and sometimes conflicting between individual congregations. Some congregations are very selective in their applications of Talmudic law, or do so for the sake of continuity with tradition, while others encourage a serious observance of the Jewish halakha. Virtually all Messianic congregations and synagogues believe that the oral traditions are subservient to the written Torah. Additional doctrines  * Sin and atonement: Some Messianics define sin as transgression of the Torah (Law/Instruction) of God and include the concept of original sin. Some adherents atone for their sins through prayer and repentance—that is, acknowledgment of the wrongdoing and seeking forgiveness for their sins (especially on Yom Kippur, the Day of Atonement). Other Messianics disagree with these rites and practices, believing that all sin (whether committed yet or not) is already atoned for through Jesus's death and resurrection. (Hebrews 9:26) * Faith and works: Some Messianics draw on Jewish rather than Christian tradition. In Hebrew, both "faith" and "faithfulness" are one word "אמונה" ("emunah"). Many adherents believe in a showing of their faith through righteous works (Jacob/"James" 2:17-26), defined by both the Tanakh and the New Testament. Some Messianics believe that faith and works are mutually exclusive or polarized; others believe that faith in God and righteous works are entirely complementary to each other (James 2:20), and that the one (faith) naturally leads to the other (works) - much like some Christian thinking. Some say that righteousness with God is solely by grace through faith and then acknowledge that works are still very important. * Salvation: In agreement with historical Protestantism,  Messianics believe that salvation is by grace alone through faith alone in Christ alone.{Ephesians 2:8-9} Canon Messianic believers commonly hold the תנ"ך (Tanakh; Hebrew Bible), to be divinely inspired. The הברית החדשה ("Brit Chadasha"; New Testament) is also considered to also be divinely inspired. * תורה (Torah; "Teaching" or "Instruction") is also called the חומש (Chumash; "The five"). "The Law" is called "The Five Books of Moses" or the "Pentateuch" especially by Christians. * נביאים (Nevi'im; "Prophets") * כתובים (Ketuvim; "Writings") is sometimes called "Αγιόγραφα" ("Hagiographa"; "Holy Writ") * Gospels   ‣ Gospel of מתתיהו ("Mattityahu"; "Gift of God")/מתי ("Mattay")/"Matthew",   ‣ Gospel of Marcus/Μαρκοϲ ("Markos")/"Mark",   ‣ Gospel of Lucas/Λουκᾶς ("Loukas")/"Luke", and   ‣ Gospel of יהוחנן ("Yehochanan"; "God has been gracious")/יוחנן ("Yochanan")/"John". * Acts of the Apostles * Epistles of Jude, John, James, Peter, Paul [Romans, 1 & 2 Corinthians, 1 & 2 Thessalonians, Galatians, Ephesians, Philippians, Colossians, 1 & 2 Timothy, Titus, Philemon), and the Epistle to the Hebrews. * Book of Revelation. David H. Stern has produced a Messianic Jewish version of the Bible called the Complete Jewish Bible. Torah "Torah" refers to the first five books of the Bible. Torah reading in Hebrew is one qualifier for a congregation to be considered authentically Messianic.  Individuals are encouraged to engage in private and corporate study of Torah for instruction in doctrine and righteousness. The Torah contains the 613 commandments of the Covenant between God and Israel. Some Messianic congregations and synagoges hold that for Jews, whether they are Messianic or not, Torah observance is covenantally obligatory, for Gentiles it is not. Scriptural commentary Many messianic believers also look to Jewish texts and laws, such as the Babylonian Talmud and other rabbinic commentary, for historical insight into an understanding of the biblical texts. However, much like Karaite Judaism, some Messianics do not accept rabbinic commentary and traditional laws as authoritative where it seems to contradict the Scriptures of the Messianic canon. This, however, is debated and varies from congregation to congregation, or ministry to ministry, and perhaps even issue-to-issue. Although there is much debate with regard to acceptance of the Babylonian Talmud, there does exist a small minority who adhere to the teachings of the Sages and oral teachings held in the Talmud and consider them authoritative. The main difference between them and mainstream Judaism remains the belief that Yeshua is the Messiah. These groups consider Yeshua's command, "The Scribes and the Pharisees sit in the seat of Moses, all of which they command you to do, do, but do not do as they do." (Matt 23:2-3) to be a proclamation of Torah authority to the Pharisaic Jewish community. One of the great differences between them and most Messianics is their belief of non-separation from the Jewish community and the authority of the Rabbis. Although they hold the New Testament teachings as authoritative, there remain many details in Biblical Law which violate oral tradition, as well as the written Torah. Because of this, there remains for them another line of division between them and mainstream Judaism. Many Messianic congregations use traditional Jewish rabbinic commentaries such as the Mishnah and Gemara to gain historical insight into biblical teachings and passages and to better comprehend the environment that the first-century New Testament writers would have been familiar with. Messianic commentaries on various books of the Bible, with the exception of a handful of commentaries written on the Torah and New Testament texts, such as Matthew, Acts of the Apostles, Epistle to the Romans, Epistle to the Galatians and Epistle to the Hebrews, can be few and far between. David H. Stern has released a one-volume Jewish New Testament Commentary, but it overlooks many of the issues of composition, history, date and setting, and only provides select explanatory notes from a Messianic Jewish point of view. Other noted New Testament commentary authors include Joseph Shulam, who has written commentaries on Acts, Romans, and Galatians, Tim Hegg of  TorahResource, who has written commentary on Romans, Galatians, Hebrews, and is presently examining Matthew, Daniel Thomas Lancaster, who has written extensively for the First Fruits of Zion Torah Club series, and Stuart Sacks, author of Hebrews Through a Hebrews' Eyes. Further scriptural commentary "Many Messianic Jewish believers consider rabbinic commentaries such as the Mishnah and the Talmud dangerous," says Joshua Isaac Walters "When we begin to study and observe Torah to become like Messiah, there are pitfalls we must avoid. One such pitfall is the study of Mishnah and Talmud - Rabbinic traditional Law. There are many people and congregations that place a great emphasis on rabbinic legal works, such as the Mishnah and the Talmud in search of their Hebrew roots. People are looking to the rabbis for answers on how to keep God’s commands, but if one looks into the Mishnah and does what it says, he or she is not a follower of the Messiah. Or, if one looks into the Talmud and does what it says, he or she is not a follower of the Messiah – he or she is a follower of the rabbis because Rabbi Yeshua, the Messiah, is not quoted there. Rabbinic Judaism is not Messianic Judaism. Rabbinic Judaism is not founded in Messiah. Rabbinic Judaism, for the most part, is founded in the yeast – the teachings of the Pharisees. Yeshua’s teachings and the discipleship that He brought His students through was not Rabbinic Judaism. There is a real danger in Rabbinics. There is a real danger in Mishnah and Talmud. No one involved in Rabbinics has ever come out on the other side more righteous than when he or she entered. He or she may look “holier than thou” – but they do not have the life changing experience clearly represented in the lives of the believers of the Messianic communities of the first century." Halakhic commentary While many in the Messianic movement, especially those who have come out of Protestant churches, have a sola scriptura approach to Torah, Tanakh and the B'rit Chadashah, it is incorrect to assume that all Messianics share this rejection of oral Torah. There are those who look to the Talmud and rabbinical interpretations of Israel for guidance in a fuller expression of obedience to Torah. If Messianic Judaism is indeed a Judaism, it stands to reason that it shares community with all Jews in its acceptance of standards and interpretations. Messianics who honor halakhah point out that Deuteronomy 17 instructs not only obedience to Torah, but also to the Judges we go to for Torah interpretation, to "do everything they direct you to do. Act according to the law they teach you and the decisions they give you. Do not turn aside from what they tell you, to the right or to the left." Yeshua backs up the Torah teachers among the Pharisees in this authority in Matthew 23, "The teachers of the law and the Pharisees sit in Moses' seat. So you must obey them and do everything they tell you."  In light of this, both the Jerusalem Council, and the Messianic Jewish Rabbinical Council have begun publishing halakha. People of God Messianic Judaism has as a core teaching that Israel remains Israel and the Nations remain the Nations, Jews remain Jews and Gentiles remain Gentiles. Jews are those who are born of a Jewish mother or have undergone halakhic conversion to Judaism. An exception is also made for those born of Jewish fathers if and only if the individual claims Jewish identity, similar to the Reform position. The Jerusalem Council, a Messianic halakhic body, maintains that Israel is defined as a people group of members of the covenant God made with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob; chosen by God from the nations, and includes their descendants." The "People of God" is a larger set which includes Israel, but also includes Gentiles in the Christian Churches as well as Messianic Gentiles. Thus, a rabbinical Jew is part of "Israel", a Baptist is part of Ἐκκλησία ("Ekklesia") and a Messianic Jew is both "Israel" and Ekklesia. Further, rabbinical Jew, Baptist, and Messianic Jew, both Israel and Ekklesia, are "People of God." Messianic Judaism sees itself as the "link," the point of the graft between Israel and Ekklesia. The issue of the relationship of Israel to Ekklesia, especially in terms of Covenant, is highly important to Messianics. While Jews are considered within an irrevocable Covenant given at Mt. Sinai, gentiles are not. A Messianic Jew must keep Covenant, but a Methodist need not.  Those Gentiles who have joined Messianic congregations take up Torah observance, some more than others, but do so voluntarily, either out of love for God or simply as part of being in the community. Jews and Gentiles are seen as completely equal before God, as "one new man" in their belief in Yeshua, but this union is not a homogenization but more analogous to the union of husband and wife in marriage, where differentiation is preserved even within unity. Thus, Messianic Judaism does not require Gentile conversion to Judaism, and in fact discourages it. However, the UMJC makes exceptions for those rare individuals who identify in a stronger way than simply to be "grafted on." The reasoning for this variance is as follows: While Titus may have been the norm in the epistles, a Gentile not converted to Judaism, Paul nevertheless made an exception for Timothy, whom he circumcised and brought under the Covenant. (The statement of the Messianic Jewish Rabbinical Council regarding Conversion [http://www.ourrabbis.org/main/content/view/18/32/]) These converts to Judaism do not in any way have a higher status within Messianic Judaism than the gentiles attached to the communities. A statement on circumcision is provided by the Jerusalem Council: "...although circumcision is not a requirement for positional right standing with HaShem, it is a requirement for those who are Abraham's seed, and who desire to "walk blameless." Jewish law The more mainstream Messianic congregations adhere to a strongly halakhic definition for God's people. In these groups, Gentiles are colleagues and are strongly encouraged, but not required, to keep the Torah. Eschatology Issues of creation and eschatology are not central to Messianic Judaism with the following exception: the idea that one age is ending, as the fullness of the Gentiles has been reached, and the next age beginning, where we shall see the fullness of Israel. The wording is a reference to , "Again I ask: Did [the Jews] stumble so as to fall beyond recovery? Not at all! Rather, because of their transgression, salvation has come to the Gentiles to make Israel envious. But if their transgression means riches for the world, and their loss means riches for the Gentiles, how much greater riches will their fullness bring! ... For if their rejection is the reconciliation of the world, what will their acceptance be but life from the dead? ... I do not want you to be ignorant of this mystery, brothers, so that you may not be conceited: Israel has experienced a hardening in part until the full number of the Gentiles has come in. And so all Israel will be saved." The "fullness of the Gentiles" might be said to refer to the Great Commission, which is complete. The rebirth of the nation of Israel, the re-establishment of Jerusalem as its capital, the return of Jews from Russia, "the nation to the north," and the return of Jews worldwide to greater observance are all seen as signs of the beginning of the age of Israel. Messianics believe that when the fullness of Israel is reached, the Messiah will return and the world will see the resurrection of the dead prior to a final judgement. Overview of issues Traditional Christianity affirms that the Torah is the word of God, though most Christians deny that all of the laws of the Pentateuch directly apply to themselves as Christians. The New Testament suggests that Yeshua established a new covenant relationship between God and his people (; ) and this new covenant speaks of the Torah being written upon the heart. Various passages such as , ,  and , as well as various examples of Torah observance in the New Testament, are cited by Messianics in suggesting that the Torah was not and could not have been abolished. Many Messianics believe that it is absurd to assume that any of the 613 Mitzvot would be abolished simply because certain commandments are or are not repeated or reaffirmed individually in the New Testament, proclaiming the belief that such was never the job of the Apostles in the first place, and that the Torah has always been immutable. Messianics sometimes challenge Christians by arguing that if they believe Jesus is the Messiah, then according to the Torah itself Yeshua could not have changed the Torah (Deuteronomy 13). As with Orthodox Judaism, capital punishment and animal sacrifice are not practiced because there are strict Biblical conditions on how these are to be practiced, requiring a functioning Temple in Jerusalem with its Levite priesthood.  When the power of capital punishment is available, often its exercise is only after exhausting loopholes in Torah which are used to set a suspect free. According to the Talmud, capital punishment in Jewish law always had to lean on merciful alternatives to execution and make every effort not to give the strictest punishment within the confines of the Torah: "A Sanhedrin which kills once in seven years is considered murderous. Rabbi Elazar ben Azariah said: once in seventy years. Rabbi Akiva and Rabbi Tarfon said: if we had been in the Sanhedrin, no one would have ever been killed." Most Messianics believe that observance of the Torah brings about sanctification, not salvation, which was to be produced only by the Messiah.

Gmina Pawłowice Gmina Pawłowice is a rural gmina (administrative district) in Pszczyna County, Silesian Voivodeship, in southern Poland. Its seat is the village of Pawłowice, which lies approximately 17 km west of Pszczyna and 38 km south-west of the regional capital Katowice. The gmina covers an area of , and as of 2006 its total population is 17,667. Villages Gmina Pawłowice contains the villages and settlements of Golasowice, Jarząbkowice, Krzyżowice, Pawłowice, Pielgrzymowice, Pniówek and Warszowice. Neighbouring gminas Gmina Pawłowice is bordered by the towns of Jastrzębie-Zdrój and Żory, and by the gminas of Pszczyna, Strumień, Suszec and Zebrzydowice.
